# loan_defaults

This repository contains files for my project on predicting loan defaults. This project was part of a PhD-level course: "Machine Learning with R: Advanced" taken at GSERM, St:Gallen in Summer 2021. I won first place in the course-organised machine learning competition and received the highest attainable grade (6/6, A in ECTS-system). It was a full week intensive summer program with daily commits to the competition. I spent an additional four days to fine tune the models and write the report.

The repository contains the original data provided, the r-scripts, an R Markdown document and its related html document. Most code is run within the R-script due to its large memory usage rather than in R Markdown, but figures etc. were imported to the R Markdown document for the course's final report. 

The r-script is long and reflects the nature of the course's competition. We were able to compete each course day and the R-file reflects this development. First, I fitted basic models and invested time in data exploration and feature engineering. The basic models (logits especially) had fast computation time and thus allowed for a relatively quick iterations to improve the features.. The more the file and the competition progress the more complex and computationally intensive the models become. The models moved from using logits without feature selection to predictive logits using feature selection based on a random forest's importance scores. Next steps included ensemble models (gradient boosting machines/ random forests). Finally, I experiment with hyperparameter tuning and compare models using random forests (ranger), gradient boosting machines, and predictive logits. The final and winning models is a GBM.

